---
title: "Some Note of Setting up Caffe"
category: "Using Linux"
---

Previously I have written some [notes](https://joshua19881228.github.io/2015-08-30-Setting-Up-Caffe/) of how to set up environment for [Caffe](http://caffe.berkeleyvision.org/) on Ubuntu 14.04. My strategy is DIY. Though the methods mentioned in those notes worked well at that time, they may be out of date now. Since I am quite a rookie in Linux OS, I need this additional note to bypass the problems I met recently.

**Concerning setting link directories**

New a configuration file in the directory of `/etc/ld.so.conf.d/` and the file name must be end up with `.conf`. In the file is the directories that need to be added to the link path. Finally use command `sudo ldconfig` to make it effective. Here is an example to add link path of OpenBLAS to the environment. A new file named as `openblas.conf` is created and saved in `/etc/ld.so.conf.d/`. In the file a path is written `/home/joshua/LIBS/openblas/lib`. Then type `sudo ldconfig` in a terminal window.

**Concerning installing NVIDIA GPU drivers**

A very easy way to install NVIDIA GPU drivers is using the tools called "Software&Updates" in "System Settings" of Ubuntu. In "Software&Updates" there is a tag "Additional Drivers", which can be used to select possible GPU drivers. After reboot the new settings can take effect.

**Concerning making Caffe**

After `sudo apt-get update` and `sudo apt-get upgrade`, I found that Caffe can not make. The error came from TIFF. I solved the problem by `conda remove libtiff`.